ARUNDEL INTER -SCHOOLS QUIZ                                       SENIORS  14/06/2023 
A. English Language & literature
1. Spell the following words: a) Eisteddfod  b) Drunkenness .
2. What figure of speech is the phrase “Autumn arrived in his coat of orange, red and gold?”  Personification
3. Name the author of the book “To Kill A Mockingbird,” who died on February 19th 2016?  Harper Lee  
4. What term is given to a figure of speech in which two successive words seemingly contradict one another as
in “wise fool”? Oxymoron .
5. What word in  English is the only word that  ends in the letters 'mt'.  Dreamt
6. What sentence in English  uses all the letters of the English alphabet?  The quick brown fox jumps  over the
lazy dog
B. History & Geography
1. In which city or country would you find The Spanish  Steps ? Rome/Italy .
2. What is Turkey’s highest mountain?  Mount Ararat
3. In which war did Florence Nightingale nurse he lp the injured?  Crimean War .
4. What are  the capital cities of the following countries: a.) Qatar – Doha  b.) Indonesia – Jakarta .
5. Which tourist attraction features in Zimbabwe is a result of chemical weathering?  Chinhoyi Caves 

6. Tanzania is a portmanteau name (two -word combination) from which two states which united in 1964?

Tanganyika & Zanzibar.
C. Africa & Zimbabwe
1.  The Multinational Joint Task Force  is a combined army aimed at destroying Boko Haram in Nigeria, besides
Nigeria, name the other two countries involved? Chad &  Niger , Benin  & Cameroon
2. List Zimbabwe’s two natural sites listed on World Heritage list?  Victoria Falls, Mana Pools .    
3. In which country is the Skeleton Coast National Park  found? Namibia .
4. Name the tw o languages commonly spoken in Africa, which are not of European origin? Arabic & Swahili .
5. Name the African city named after a US President, and what was his full name? Monrovia, James Monroe .
6. Liberated American slaves formed their own country in Africa, na me this country?  Liberia .      
D. Mathematics, Science & Technology
1. What are numbers 6, 28 and 496 examples of? Perfect Numbers (they are equal to sum of all their factors) .
2. If, during a mathematical conversion , you  multiplied by 5 and divided by 8, what would you be converting?
Miles to kilometres .
3. What do the letters LASER stand for? Light Amplification by the Stimulated Emission of Radiation. 

4. If it takes 5 men to dig 5 holes in 5 hours, how many men does it take to dig 100 holes in 100 hours? 20 men -
each man digs 1 hole in 5 hours .
5. What virtual digital currency, divided into 100 million units called satoshis, was created by developer Satoshi
Nakamoto in 2008?  Bitcoin
6. In computing ADSL stands for what? Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line .
E. General knowledge & current Affairs
1. What date has been set for the 2023 Zimbabwe e lections?  Wednesday 23 August  2023 .
2. Which mem ber of the K -Pop band, ASTRO died on 19 April 2023? How old was he ? Moon Bin, 25      
3. Who were the finalists of the Champions League 2023 ? Manchester City  and Inter Milan .
4. Which bird is the International symbol for happiness? – Bluebird .
5. What color  is the blood of an octopus ? blue.
6. Who is the new Nigerian President ? Bola Ahmed Tinubu .